+++
title = "About"
description = "Jacob's Blog"
date = "2022-09-11"
aliases = ["about"]
author = "Jacob Aronoff"
+++

I'm an active contributor for the opentelemetry operator project focused on Kubernetes and the OpenTelemetry Collector. I'm the current tech lead at Lightstep for the Telemetry Pipeline team where my focus is on bridging the gap between Kubernetes and Lightstep's SAAS. 

I'm a recent computer science graduate from Northeastern University, where I was heavily involved with tutoring, entrepreneurship, events and clubs. I was the president of Northeastern's NUHacks club - whose mission is to help students make, break, hack, design, build and other creative-type things, which is a mission near and dear to my heart. Outside of school, I was a hackNY fellow in 2017, and a mentor in 2018, and I will talk nonstop about how much i loved those experiences. I have also been the hackathon director for hackNY since 2018, running many hackathons and coordinating other events.

While in college, I worked for two years (non-consecutively) at Datadog in NYC as a Software Engineering intern on the alerting team. I was responsible for writing high-availability distributed systems in Golang and Python, and was heavily involved in building the company culture as well as incident response. In 2019, I became a co-op at Drift in Boston, where I worked as an SRE on implementing many of the best-practices I had learned at Datadog – including implementing canary deployments, autogenerated alerts and dashboards, and improved configuration. I accepted a full time offer at Drift, and worked part time through my final semesters at college. I was one of the leaders for the company's kubernetes migration, and was responsible for improving the reliability of the core messaging platform, which has had 99.9999% uptime because of my work. I have also been leading the company in our migration to the Istio service mesh.
