---
layout: post
title: CS 3500 Day 1
date: 2017-01-10
excerpt: "Object Oriented Design"
tags: [OOD, java, notes]
comments: true
hidden: false
project: OOD
categories:
- Object Oriented Design
---

### Object Oriented Design

This is my first post for OOD, I'm going to be using this as a place to take notes and write code.

[Course Website](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/course/cs3500/)

They say to use IntteliJ but like almost everything else I'm going to try and only use Sublime Text. I may have to make custom build scripts to match intelliJ projects, but I hate Android Studio (an IntelliJ fork) so I'm really going to try and steer clear from that. 

## Lecture Schedule

 
Why object-oriented design?
 
The essence of objects
 
Java review
 
Java safari
 
Java safari (part 2)
 
Version control with Git
 
Introducing the Model, and the Builder pattern
 
Controllers and Mocks;
Class Activity: abstracting I/O
 
Design critique: testing, toString, Pile abstractions, I/O

Encapsulation and Invariants
 
Design exercise: Turtles
 
Inheritance vs. composition
 
Intro to Performance
 
First exam
 
Design critique: music models
 
Class activity: GUI, MIDI basics
 
MVC code, starter code and code
 
The Adapter pattern
 
Commands
 
The strategy and decorator patterns
 
Class activity: Strategic FreeCell
 
Case study: Interpreters
 
Case study: Interpreters
 
Introduction to JavaScript
 
JavaScript inheritance and patterns
 
Exam review
 
Promises
 
Final exam
 
Bonus lecture (Android?)

## Thoughts

Looks like it'll be a good semester. One of the main projects of the semester is making a musicplayer (which I've already done in java) so that'll be really fun. Also excited to see javascript at the end of the semester as that's always a mess. It also seems like they're going to have another git tutorial **:(**. 

## Why OOD?

Software isn't easy. Writing good software is a tough pursuit. Writing something that converts farenheit to celsius is easy.

~~~ racket
(define (f->c F) (* 5/8 (- F 32)))
(f->c 212)
~~~

Programs get big

* Windows NT 3.1 had 4 million lines of code
* Windows 2000 had 29 million 
* Windows server 2003 had 50 million

A lot of software development is maintainance. How do we start thinking about such big programs? These complex parts are all made from simple ones. It's totally possible to write programs that we cannot completely understand. You can work on one part of a program without understanding the rest. This is only possible with extensibility. Software is ALWAYS bound to change:

* Customers don't know what they want
* What they want always changes too
* Very few things in the real world are black & white

# Software developement life cycle

1) Analysis

2) Design

3) Implementation

4) Testing

5) Deployment

6) Evaluation

7) GOTO 1

**Things don't look like this in practice. In practice they look like:**

1) Cursory analysis

2) Completely wrong implementation

3) Slightly less cursory analysis

4) Wrong headed design

5) Some implementation and testing

6) More analysis and re-design

7) More implementation and testing

8) Iterate, iterate, iterate

9) Deployment

10) Bug reports (yay!)

11) Head scratching

12) Coffee

13) Temptation to re-write from scratch

__One possible answer is object oriented design__

OOD is a set of principles to avoid the previous list. What is it?
Central concepts:

* Information hiding
* Polymorphism
* Interfaces

Loose coupling:

* Replacement
* Reuse

**SOLID** Principles:

* **S**ingle responsibility, meaning that each class should have a single responsibility or purpose.
* **O**pen/closed, meaning that interfaces should be open to reimplementation, and that clients should not require modification.
* **L**iskov substitution, meaning that objects of subtypes may be used anywhere that the supertype can be used.
* **I**nterface segregation, meaning that classes should offer small, specialized interfaces for different kinds of clients.
* **D**ependency inversion, meaning that details should depend on abstractions rather than abstractions depending on details.











