---
layout: post
title: CS 3500 Day 7
date: 2017-01-31
excerpt: "Object Oriented Design"
tags: [OOD, java, notes]
comments: true
hidden: false
project: OOD
categories:
- Object Oriented Design
---

### Object Oriented Design

Today we're moving onto controllers, the C in MVC. 

The controller takes input from the user and decides what to do.

Controllers:

* Glue of the system
* Controls how and when the model is used
* Controls what must be shown to the view and when (in some cases)
* Controls what action must be taken when user interacts with system (in some cases)
* Controls the sequence of operations in an application(in some cases)

The view should **NEVER** talk directly to the model (and vice versa). The controller is the middle man. 

MVC Pattern:

* Model: Offers actual operations
	* Oblivious to when they are needed and how to present results
* View: Presents results
	* Oblivious to how they are produced or what to do next
* Controller: Delegates to model and view
	* Oblivious to how model completes the operations or how specifically the view shows output

Our next assignment is going to be the controller of Freecell. Our FreecellController looks like this:

FreeCellController: 

* “Controls” the game
* Uses the model and the view in specific sequence
	* Determines when to ask for user input
	* Determines when to use which operation of model
	* Determines when to show output to the view
* The sequence of the game is determined by the controller, not the user


Synchronous Controllers

* Determines the sequence of operations of the system
* Determines when and how the system interacts with something external
* Suitable for pre-baked “rules-based” applications, like games
* Challenges:
	* How to truly separate controller from view so each one is replacable?
	* What to do when system is reactive in nature (to user input)?
		* User interaction decides program behavior, not controller
		* Examples: Microsoft Word, IntelliJ

Synchronicity happens like 1->2->3->4. There's an order to events. Synchronous tells the user to do something and then gets input. Asynch gets input and does something.

Asynchronous Controllers

* Controller gets control when external input is given
* Controller methods are called as a response to external input
* Such methods in the controller are called callbacks
* GUI programs typically work this way
	* User clicks a button, moves the mouse ⇒ a controller method is called
	* In OO GUIs, callbacks are often wrapped in classes called listeners
* Look at MVCExample code





