---
layout: post
title: DS 4100 Day 1
date: 2017-01-10
excerpt: "Data Collection, Integration, and Analysis"
tags: [DS, R, notes]
comments: true
hidden: false
project: DS4100
categories:
- DS 4100
---

### DS 4100 Data Collection, Integration, and Analysis

[Course Website](http://ds4100.weebly.com)

Just like my [CS 3500](http://jaronoff.com/CS-3500-Day-1/) posts, this series is for my data science class notes. This class is what most of my R tutorial posts have been for (I'm going to continue those until I finish the book). Here are the units: 

* Unit 1 - Essentials Concepts of Data Science
* Unit 2 - Programming in R for Data Science
* Unit 3 - Data Collection & Integration
* Unit 4 - Data Storage
* Unit 5 - Data Analytics
* Unit 6 - Python Programming for Data Science
* Unit 7 - Data Quality & Governance

So it seems like we start with R, and **eventually** get to Python. The first part is all about the concepts. The teacher calls it "plumbing" the stuff about collection and integration. Getting data from SO many different sources (Files, JSON, XML, Scraping, APIs). Then we go to data storage in SQL and NoSQL. Then we leave "plumbing" and do data analytics: descriptive analytics and predictive analytics :) :) :) :); data mining, machine learning, etc (REALLY COOL STUFF). Then we do visualization and communicating results leading into building analytics reports. Then a little Python programming and checking the quality of data. It also sounds like this is a job prep kind of class where at the end I'll be job ready for DS. 

## Module 1

This module is about the role of data scientists, the value of data, and the course structure

Data drives decision making in organizations. The product team needs information to satisfy customers. We're not going to be doing machine learning, this is going to be mainly human driven learning (we'll do a little bit AI.) Many people think that a computer generated answer is more true than a human, just because you built a predictive model doesn't mean that it's true. Algorithms may contain bias. Loans in the 1950s often had bias, in the 70's a company began collecting data about bank customers. This company then created the FICO credit score which is a number that predicts the likeliness that someone will pay back a loan. Colleges now use a similar system for accepting students. When you start building models like this, do the biases go away? Initially it looks like they do, but often times they actually don't. There is an ethical component to the work we do, whether you like it or not, biases can be inadvertantly built in to a model. Teacher recommends reading [Weapons of math destruction](https://www.amazon.com/Weapons-Math-Destruction-Increases-Inequality/dp/0553418815), it's about a woman who realized how often her work was being misused and all the times there was inherent bias in her models. 


