---
template: "archive"
title: DS 4100 Day 13
date: 2017-02-21
description: "Data Collection, Integration, and Analysis"
tags: [DS, R, notes]
comments: true
draft: false
project: DS4100
category: DS 4100
---

### DS 4100 Data Collection, Integration, and Analysis

Today we're talking a bit about NoSQL databases. These databases can be divided into four generes:

* Key-Value
* Columnar
* Document
* Graph

## Key-Value

* Key-Value (KV) databases such as Redis and Riak are the simplest kind of database in which keys are stored with matching values. 
* A KV-DB is essentially a lookup table that often uses hashing to speed up retrieval.
* KV-DBs scale easily and have high performance.
* In fact, a file system could be looked at as a key-value data store where the path is the key and the file content is the value.

## Columnar 

* Columnar databases, such as HBase, are similar to key-value databases in that they store keys with information. 
* However, rather than storing a single value, a columnar database stores multiple pieces of information – similar to a record.
* Unlike a relational database the columns do not have to be of the same data type.
* Unlike relational schemas, column-based stores do not require a pre-structured table. 
* Each record is comprised of one or more columns containing the information and each column of each record can be different.
* Columnar databases allow very large and un-structured data to be managed.
* They are generally used when simple key-value pairs are not sufficient and storing many records with large amounts of information is a required.

## Document

* Document databases such as MongoDB and CouchDB are very similar to columnar databases but allow for much deeper nesting of information.
* They are ideal for structured documents.
* Performance is often an issue with these databases.
* XML Stores are an example of a document database.
* Document databases often use JavaScript as the native query language with data being exchanged between the client and the server using JSON object.

## Graph

* Graph databases such as Neo4J use “graphs” with nodes and edges connecting each other through relationships.
* These databases are ideal in situations where “networks” or “deep connection” must be tracked, such as social networks.

The rest of the class we're working on our new assignment