---
template: "archive"
title: DS 4100 Day 16
date: 2017-03-17
description: "Data Collection, Integration, and Analysis"
tags: [DS, R, notes]
comments: true
draft: false
project: DS4100
category: DS 4100
---


### DS 4100 Data Collection, Integration, and Analysis

Today we're doing more on regression model predictions. 


## Regression

Regression models are a mathematical equation used to predict a value based on empirical observations.
The prediction is never correct, but, depending on the “fit of data,” it can be reasonably good.

* The variable to be predicted is called the dependent variable 
	* Sometimes also called the response variable

* The value of this variable depends on the value(s) of the independent variable(s)
	* Sometimes called the explanatory or predictor variable
	* Multiple regression models have several independent variables and will be covered later

* Scatter plotting is a helpful way to investigate the relationship between variables.
The independent variable is normally plotted on the x-axis, while the dependent variable is normally plotted on the 
* y-axis.
* This is only useful for simple regression with one independent variable.


## Regression vs Correlation

* For regression to be useful, a correlation must exist between the independent and the dependent variable.
* Correlation quantifies how well one variable’s values move in accordance with changes in the other variable.
* Regression is an equation that mathematically captures how one variable changes with the other.

## Constructing a model

Linear Regression

* Plot the two variables in a scatter plot

* Click on one of the variables with the right mouse button and select “Trend Line”

* State to display the R2 and the regression equation

Alternatively, use the =slope and =intercept functions to calculate the slope and intercept of the regression equation or the =linest function to get slope, intercept, and R2  in an array.


# Time-Series Regression

* Trend projection fits a trend curve to a series of historical data points with time on the x-axis.
* The curve is projected into the future for medium- to long-range forecasts:
	* Straight line (linear model)
	* Quadratic or higher-order polynomial
	* Exponential

The simplest is a linear (straight line) model developed using regression analysis with time as the independent variable.

## R squared 

The fit of the regression line is measured by the coefficient of determination – R2.
The closer R2  is to 1, the better the regression model fit and the more accurate the prediction.
Note that R2 is one part of measuring the “quality” of a regression model: the other is statistical significance.


## Simulation

* When there are significant variations in the historical data and there is no clear trend, then a Monte-Carlo * simulation model works best.
* General simulation approach:
	* Construct an empirical probability distribution from the historical data points
	* Create a random number range based on the probability distribution
	* Generate a random number and use it as an index into the random number range

## Model Selection

* Select the model with the smallest overall error measure be it either MAD (Mean Absolute Deviation) or MSE (Mean Absolute Error).
* Make sure that bias is small as well.
* For regression models evaluate Adjusted R2 and statistical significance of overall model as well as each variable.

* Aside from MAD and MSE there are other ways to evaluate the fit of a model:
	* Median Error – outliers have less influence
	* Mean Percentage Error – normalizes magnitude of errors and focuses on relative size of error
	* Mean Absolute Percentage Error – shows relative size of error





